Welcome back.
Now that we've gotten into the weeds of how to optimize our code let's talk specifically about react
how can we optimize our code in re-act such as our robo friends up will for any reactive help or the
first thing you want to checkout is a feature that has come ever since re-act fifteen point four point
zero.
And that is our performance tool.
All we need to do is in our local host give the query string parameter of re-act perf re-act underscore
Perth from here.
If you hit enter nothing happens but if you open your developer tools and go to performance we can now
do something really interesting.
I'm going to hit record type a few things in the search box and then hit stop and then we're going to
analyze them or analyze the performance of our app let's have record and type things really really fast
and change stuff and stop just seven seconds.
Now by using this react to underscore perf we can now see our components and what they're doing in the
performance down.
Now I know this is overwhelming so let's try and go through it.
Nice and easy.
We see that we have our app that is rendering and being filtered and we want to take a look here at
the C-p U.S. we see that there are some nice yellow bars over here that means some javascript happening.
So I'm going to highlight it by just clicking and then on clicking and you see in the user timing section
well here in the user timing section if I scroll Lin
look like that by using react to underscore perf.
Now the chrome developer tools recognizes Riak components you can see the re-act logo here and shows
us what kind of work it's doing.
We see that we have the react to render tree just at this moment in time.
We have the connected app.
Remember we're using redox.
We have the app as our main container component and underneath it we see that we have Carlist air boundary
and scroll components and underneath that we see our card components
very very cool.
And we actually see here what they're doing in the square brackets we see that it's updating.
So because I probably type something here you can see up I've been typing something in this section.
These components are updating in each color bar shows time that a component is doing work since javascript
is single threaded whenever a component is mounting or rendering or updating it's hogging the main thread.
Remember the main worker of the browser and preventing other code from running these bracketed quotes
say update and sometimes they'll say Brandur and mounting.
They describe what part of the component lifecycle is taking place.
And the timeline breaks down each step.
You can see fine grained timing on the methods that you're using.
Our app is fairly small so you don't see too many jumps here but as you get more and more components
you can imagine how this is going to go deeper and deeper and deeper into the render tree.
I like to call this the reverse Christmas tree and the bigger their Christmas tree is the more and more
components needs render because remember the way re-act work is if something updates in the app it will
update and pass on those props to all the components below it and all those components which are functions
need to run Embrey render.
So you want to avoid something where it's really really deep.
They look like just pyramids of doom just massive pyramids or reverse Christmas trees.
Now it's typical to have a fairly deep component trees in reac But if you're optimizing a component
that is mounted frequently it can help to reduce the number of wrapper components such as the connect
component.
Since each adds a small performance and memory penalty.
Now one thing to keep in mind here is that when you run this it's running on the devolvement version
of re-act which is a lot slower because you get X Akshara tooling Plus even running this re-act perf
slows on your app.
So it's not the exact same as your production production will most likely be faster but it is a good
indicator of why your app is doing and you can test it out to see where are my bottlenecks now.
Looking at this we might have realized something.
How can we help this process with redux well by using redux looking Be smart about what components update
because if this toplevel component updates it's going to render all its children or re-offender all
those children.
But if we have redux and instead of using this brute component to update the state we can just directly
connect a lower component remember by using connect we can connect to the state so that we can now just
connect the component here and only these two below it will update versus if he had the toplevel component
connected which will really render a lot more components.
So that's the strategy there.
Do you want to have just one top level container or component or just a few components at the top that
are connected to redox or to avoid passing down props and really deep nested trees.
Do you want to use connect closer to the leaf nodes and that is an architectural decision that you and
your team make based on the pros and cons.
Finally I also wanted to show you the re-act developer tools.
This is a chrome plug in that you can get.
You just click on Add to Chrome and you'll have it and it's very very useful.
If I go over here to the re-act tab you see that it shows my app I have my props and store I have my
provider My connected app my app and then I see my search box scroll.
And then finally all my children component.
The cool thing about this is that it shows you what props you have what children you have all these
things.
And as we change things you can actually notice the changes.
But for performance the reactive power tools is really really nice when you click on this highlight
updates and what will happen is any time your app changes or a component is re rendered it's going to
highlight it.
Let's check it out.
I'm going to start typing and look at that.
It shows what is being rebranded which is pretty much all of our app and watch this as I type faster.
Do you see that.
I went really really aggressive with the typing there but you see how the colors change what the color
represents how often things are being rendered.
They're faster they're being rendered the closer they are to the color red.
So think of the hot colors and the slower they are the closer they are to blue.
Now this is helpful for detecting an unnecessary render cycle.
For example as I type here I see that my header is being updated but why I mean it's just the same the
entire time.
Why would I need to read render this that's a function that's running that's kind of unnecessary.
And when we look back at our code in the app.
Yes we see that.
Well it makes sense because every time I do the on search event I have to despise ssion action and it
updates the search field.
So this app ws component gets re rendered because there's a change in the redock store.
And because the header is part of this it's going to render as well.
So these are the kind of things you want to start noticing.
Now keep in mind that seeing yellow or red when you're highlighting or when components are rendering
isn't necessarily a bad thing.
It's going to be expected when you're doing things like sliders or scrolling or any UI elements that
triggers frequent updates.
So you can't completely avoid it but if you're just clicking a button and you all of a sudden and seeing
red that means there's something going on that you want to fix.
So the tool here the highlight updates is mainly used to see what's being updated on unnecessarily and
as the app developer you want to have a general idea of how your re-act app is being rendered.
Because remember we want to avoid unnecessary dumb manipulations because we know by now that that really
hinders our performance.
So in the next video I'm going to show you how we can avoid some of these unnecessary renderers.
I'll see in the next one.